[SOUND] In the previous video,
we understood that validation
helps us select a model which will
perform best on the unseen test data.
But, to use validation, we first need
to split the data with given labels,
entrain, and validation parts.
In this video, we will discuss
different validation strategies.
And answer the questions.
How many splits should we make and
what are the most often methods
to perform such splits.
Loosely speaking, the main difference
between these validation strategies
is the number of splits being done.
Here I will discuss three of them.
First is holdout, second is K-fold,
and third is leave-one-out.
Let's start with holdout.
It's a simple data split which
divides data into two parts,
training data frame, and
validation data frame.
And the important note here
is that in any method,
holdout included, one sample can go
either to train or to validation.
So the samples between train and
the validation do not overlap,
if they do,
we just can't trust our validation.
This is sometimes the case,
when we have repeated samples in the data.
And if we are,
we will get better predictions for
these samples and
more optimistic all estimation overall.
It is easy to see that these can prevent
us from selecting best parameters for
our model.
For example,
over fitting is generally bad.
But if we have duplicated samples
that present, and train, and
test simultaneously and over feed,
validation scores can deceive us into
a belief that maybe we are moving
in the right direction.
Okay, that was the quick note about
why samples between train and
validation must not overlap.
Back to holdout.
Here we fit our model on
the training data frame, and
evaluate its quality on
the validation data frame.
Using scores from this evaluation,
we select the best model.
When we are ready to make a submission,
we can retrain our model on
our data with given labels.
Thinking about using
holdout in the competition.
It is usually a good choice,
when we have enough data.
Or we are likely to get similar scores for
the same model,
if we try different splits.
Great, since we understood
what holdout is,
let's move onto the second validation
strategy, which is called K-fold.
K-fold can be viewed as a repeated
holdout, because we split our data into
key parts and iterate through them, using
every part as a validation set only once.
After this procedure,
we average scores over these K-folds.
Here it is important to understand
the difference between K-fold and
usual holdout or bits of K-times.
While it is possible to average scores
they receive after K different holdouts.
In this case,
some samples may never get invalidation,
while others can be there multiple times.
On the other side, the core idea of K-fold
is that we want to use every sample for
validation only once.
This method is a good choice when we
have a minimum amount of data, and
we can get either a sufficiently
big difference in quality, or
different optimal
parameters between folds.
Great, having dealt with K-fold,
we can move on to the third
validation strategy in our release.
It is called leave-one-out.
And basically it is a special
case of Kfold when K
is equal to the number
of samples in our data.
This means that it will iterate
through every sample in our data.
Each time usion came in a slot minus
one object is a train subset and
one object left is a test subset.
This method can be helpful if
we have too little data and
just enough model to entrain.
So that there, validation strategies.
Holdout, K-fold and leave-one-out.
We usually use holdout or
K-fold on shuffle data.
By shuffling data we are trying to
reproduce random trained validation split.
But sometimes, especially if you
do not have enough samples for
some class, a random split can fail.
Let's consider, for an example.
We have binary classification tests and
a small data set with eight samples.
Four of class zero, and four of class one.
Let's split data into four folds.
Done, but notice, we are not always
getting 0 and 1 in the same problem.
If we'll use the second fold for
validation, we'll get
an average value of the target in the
train of two third instead of one half.
This can drastically change
predictions of our model.
What we need here to handle
this problem is stratification.
It is just the way to insure
we'll get similar target
distribution over different faults.
If we split data into four
faults with stratification,
the average of each false target
values will be equal to one half.
It is easier to guess that significance
of this problem is higher, first for
small data sets, like in this example,
second for unbalanced data sets.
And for binary classification,
that could be,
if target average were very close to 0 or
vice versa, very close to 1.
And third, for multiclass classification
tasks with huge amount of classes.
For good classification data sets,
stratification split will be quite
similar to a simple shuffle split.
That is, to a random split.
Well done, in this video we have discussed
different validation strategies and
reasons to use each one of them.
Let's summarize this all.
If we have enough data, and
we're likely to get similar scores and
optimal model's parameters for
different splits, we can go with Holdout.
If on the contrary, scores and
optimal parameters differ for
different splits,
we can choose KFold approach.
And event, if we too little data,
we can apply leave-one-out.
The second big takeaway from this video
for you should be stratification.
It helps make validation more stable,
and especially useful for
small and unbalanced datasets.
Great.
In the next videos we will continue to
comprehend validation at it's core.
[SOUND]
[MUSIC]